README.md, before:

# HAPI FHIR on AWS EKS

Provision an Amazon EKS cluster and deploy the HAPI FHIR JPA server using Terraform and Helm. This project automates the network, compute, and application layers so you can stand up either the general-purpose FHIR server, the terminology-only profile, or both together.

## What Gets Deployed
- **Networking:** A dedicated VPC with public and private subnets, NAT gateway, and opinionated CIDR blocks via the `terraform-aws-modules/vpc` module.
- **Compute:** An EKS control plane with managed node group sized by Terraform variables, created through the `terraform-aws-modules/eks` module.
- **Application:** HAPI FHIR Helm releases sourced from `https://chgl.github.io/charts`, with overrides split between `hapi-values-general.yaml` and `hapi-values-terminology.yaml`.

## Prerequisites
- Terraform >= 1.2
- AWS CLI v2 with credentials capable of creating EKS, VPC, IAM, and related resources
- kubectl
- Helm 3 (optional if you rely solely on Terraform, but required for manual template inspection)
- Windows 10/11 if you plan to use the bundled `deploy.bat` / `destroy.bat` automation

> **Note:** The batch scripts install Terraform, AWS CLI, and kubectl through Chocolatey if they are missing. Ensure you are comfortable with that package manager before running the scripts.

## Quick Start (Windows Automation)
1. Clone the repository and open an elevated Developer PowerShell or Command Prompt in the project root.
2. Run `deploy.bat` and respond to the prompts:
   - AWS access key ID and secret access key (stored locally in `.env` for reuse and exported to your user environment).
   - AWS region (defaults to `us-east-1` if left blank).
   - EKS cluster name (defaults to `hapi-eks-cluster`; stored in `.env` and passed to Terraform).
   - Optional EC2 key pair name. The script lists existing key pairs in the selected region so you can pick one or press Enter to skip SSH access.
   - Environment tag (defaults to `dev`).
   - HAPI deployment mode (`general`, `terminology`, or `both`). The selection determines which Helm value files are applied.
3. The script checks whether an EKS cluster with that name already exists and, if found, asks whether to continue so Terraform can reconcile the existing stack.
4. Wait for `terraform init` and `terraform apply` to complete. On success the script reminds you to run `kubectl get svc -A` to discover the HAPI load balancer address.

### Destroying the Environment
Run `destroy.bat` from the same directory. The script reuses values from `.env`, confirms the action, and runs `terraform destroy`.

## Manual Terraform Workflow
If you prefer to run Terraform directly (or are on macOS/Linux):

```bash
terraform init
terraform plan -var="aws_region=us-east-1" -var="environment=dev" -var="hapi_mode=general"
terraform apply
```

Set `TF_VAR_` environment variables or create a `terraform.tfvars` file to persist custom values. Key inputs are defined in `variables.tf`.

Before committing changes run:

```bash
terraform fmt
terraform validate
```

## Customizing the Deployment
- Edit `variables.tf` (or override via `.tfvars`) to adjust instance type, node scaling, cluster name, and HAPI chart version.
- Modify `hapi-values-general.yaml` or `hapi-values-terminology.yaml` to tune application-level configuration. The YAML files map 1:1 with the chart structure—keep keys lowercase with hyphenated file naming.
- To enable both HAPI profiles at once, set `hapi_mode = "both"` (supported in the CLI prompts and Terraform variables).

## Post-Deployment Verification
1. Configure kubeconfig:  
   `aws eks update-kubeconfig --name <cluster_name> --region <aws_region>`
2. Verify node status:  
   `kubectl get nodes`
3. Confirm service endpoint:  
   `kubectl get svc -A` and look for the `LoadBalancer` address of the HAPI service.
4. Optionally render manifests without installing:  
   `helm template hapi-fhir ./ --values hapi-values-general.yaml`

## Repository Layout
- `providers.tf`, `vpc-eks.tf`, `helm-hapi.tf`, `variables.tf`, `outputs.tf` – Terraform configuration at the repo root.
- `deploy.bat`, `destroy.bat` – Windows helpers that wrap Terraform commands and manage a `.env` file containing the last-used inputs.
- `hapi-values-general.yaml`, `hapi-values-terminology.yaml` – Helm overrides for the two deployment profiles.
- `.env` – Saved credentials and preferences (ignored by Git). Guard this file carefully and rotate credentials when needed.

## Security & State Management
- Never commit AWS credentials. The `.env` file remains local and is excluded via `.gitignore`.
- Grant IAM permissions following least privilege, rotating access keys regularly.
- For collaborative use, configure a remote Terraform backend (e.g., S3 + DynamoDB locking) and document the state location in your pull requests.

## Troubleshooting
- **`[]: was unexpected at this time.`**  
  Update to the latest `deploy.bat`; current prompts avoid reserved-character parsing issues in `cmd.exe`.
- **No EC2 key pairs listed.**  
  Ensure the AWS CLI can access the selected region. Create a new key pair in AWS Console > EC2 > Key Pairs if you require SSH access.
- **`helm_release` fails with timeout.**  
  Check EKS node readiness (`kubectl get nodes`) and confirm the Helm repository (`https://chgl.github.io/charts`) is reachable. Re-run `terraform apply` once connectivity is restored.
- **Authentication errors with `aws eks update-kubeconfig`.**  
  Verify your IAM user or role is mapped in the EKS `aws-auth` ConfigMap. The Terraform module enables default mappings, but custom restrictions may require manual updates.

## Contributing
- Follow the `Add/Update/Fix <scope>` commit convention.
- Group related infrastructure and automation changes in the same pull request.
- Include `terraform plan` output (or a summary) in PR descriptions along with any manual follow-up steps for reviewers.

Commit message:

chore(deploy): simplify deploy.bat; docs: SSH key; ignore venv
- Remove Chocolatey installs and interactive prompts from deploy.bat to reduce complexity and reliance on in-script installers. Rely on pre-installed Terraform/AWS/kubectl and provided variables. Improve exit status messaging for destroy flow.
- README: document providing an EC2 key pair for SSH to the EKS managed node group; module wires the key into remote access.
- .gitignore: add .venv/ and __pycache__/ to prevent committing Python artifacts.

BREAKING CHANGE: deploy.bat no longer installs dependencies or collects AWS credentials interactively. Ensure required tools are installed and environment/variables are set before running.

README.md, after:

# HAPI FHIR on AWS EKS

Provision an Amazon EKS cluster and deploy the HAPI FHIR JPA server using Terraform and Helm. This project automates the network, compute, and application layers so you can stand up either the general-purpose FHIR server, the terminology-only profile, or both together.

## What Gets Deployed
- **Networking:** A dedicated VPC with public and private subnets, NAT gateway, and opinionated CIDR blocks via the `terraform-aws-modules/vpc` module.
- **Compute:** An EKS control plane with managed node group sized by Terraform variables, created through the `terraform-aws-modules/eks` module.
- **Application:** HAPI FHIR Helm releases sourced from `https://chgl.github.io/charts`, with overrides split between `hapi-values-general.yaml` and `hapi-values-terminology.yaml`.

## Prerequisites
- Terraform >= 1.2
- AWS CLI v2 with credentials capable of creating EKS, VPC, IAM, and related resources
- kubectl
- Helm 3 (optional if you rely solely on Terraform, but required for manual template inspection)
- Windows 10/11 if you plan to use the bundled `deploy.bat` / `destroy.bat` automation

> **Note:** The batch scripts install Terraform, AWS CLI, and kubectl through Chocolatey if they are missing. Ensure you are comfortable with that package manager before running the scripts.

## Quick Start (Windows Automation)
1. Clone the repository and open an elevated Developer PowerShell or Command Prompt in the project root.
2. Run `deploy.bat` and respond to the prompts:
   - AWS access key ID and secret access key (stored locally in `.env` for reuse and exported to your user environment).
   - AWS region (defaults to `us-east-1` if left blank).
   - EKS cluster name (defaults to `hapi-eks-cluster`; stored in `.env` and passed to Terraform).
   - Optional EC2 key pair name. The script lists existing key pairs in the selected region so you can pick one or press Enter to skip SSH access.
   - Environment tag (defaults to `dev`).
   - HAPI deployment mode (`general`, `terminology`, or `both`). The selection determines which Helm value files are applied.
3. The script checks whether an EKS cluster with that name already exists and, if found, asks whether to continue so Terraform can reconcile the existing stack.
4. Wait for `terraform init` and `terraform apply` to complete. On success the script reminds you to run `kubectl get svc -A` to discover the HAPI load balancer address.

### Destroying the Environment
Run `destroy.bat` from the same directory. The script reuses values from `.env`, confirms the action, and runs `terraform destroy`.

## Manual Terraform Workflow
If you prefer to run Terraform directly (or are on macOS/Linux):

```bash
terraform init
terraform plan -var="aws_region=us-east-1" -var="environment=dev" -var="hapi_mode=general"
terraform apply
```

Set `TF_VAR_` environment variables or create a `terraform.tfvars` file to persist custom values. Key inputs are defined in `variables.tf`.

Before committing changes run:

```bash
terraform fmt
terraform validate
```

## Customizing the Deployment
- Edit `variables.tf` (or override via `.tfvars`) to adjust instance type, node scaling, cluster name, and HAPI chart version.
- Provide an EC2 key pair name if you need SSH access to the EKS managed node group. The Terraform module wires that key into the managed node group’s remote access configuration.
- Modify `hapi-values-general.yaml` or `hapi-values-terminology.yaml` to tune application-level configuration. The YAML files map 1:1 with the chart structure—keep keys lowercase with hyphenated file naming.
- To enable both HAPI profiles at once, set `hapi_mode = "both"` (supported in the CLI prompts and Terraform variables).

## Post-Deployment Verification
1. Configure kubeconfig:  
   `aws eks update-kubeconfig --name <cluster_name> --region <aws_region>`
2. Verify node status:  
   `kubectl get nodes`
3. Confirm service endpoint:  
   `kubectl get svc -A` and look for the `LoadBalancer` address of the HAPI service.
4. Optionally render manifests without installing:  
   `helm template hapi-fhir ./ --values hapi-values-general.yaml`

## Repository Layout
- `providers.tf`, `vpc-eks.tf`, `helm-hapi.tf`, `variables.tf`, `outputs.tf` – Terraform configuration at the repo root.
- `deploy.bat`, `destroy.bat` – Windows helpers that wrap Terraform commands and manage a `.env` file containing the last-used inputs.
- `hapi-values-general.yaml`, `hapi-values-terminology.yaml` – Helm overrides for the two deployment profiles.
- `.env` – Saved credentials and preferences (ignored by Git). Guard this file carefully and rotate credentials when needed.

## Security & State Management
- Never commit AWS credentials. The `.env` file remains local and is excluded via `.gitignore`.
- Grant IAM permissions following least privilege, rotating access keys regularly.
- For collaborative use, configure a remote Terraform backend (e.g., S3 + DynamoDB locking) and document the state location in your pull requests.

## Troubleshooting
- **`[]: was unexpected at this time.`**  
  Update to the latest `deploy.bat`; current prompts avoid reserved-character parsing issues in `cmd.exe`.
- **No EC2 key pairs listed.**  
  Ensure the AWS CLI can access the selected region. Create a new key pair in AWS Console > EC2 > Key Pairs if you require SSH access.
- **`helm_release` fails with timeout.**  
  Check EKS node readiness (`kubectl get nodes`) and confirm the Helm repository (`https://chgl.github.io/charts`) is reachable. Re-run `terraform apply` once connectivity is restored.
- **Authentication errors with `aws eks update-kubeconfig`.**  
  Verify your IAM user or role is mapped in the EKS `aws-auth` ConfigMap. The Terraform module enables default mappings, but custom restrictions may require manual updates.

## Contributing
- Follow the `Add/Update/Fix <scope>` commit convention.
- Group related infrastructure and automation changes in the same pull request.
- Include `terraform plan` output (or a summary) in PR descriptions along with any manual follow-up steps for reviewers.
